reading the title and the blurb?
googling unusual phrases or words?
free-associating and incoherent connections?
checking through the reference collection or reference links?
just sitting down and working on the puzzle, fool?
looking for hidden acronyms?
googling the title or trying to figure out the title's meaning?
following any sets of instructions carefully and methodically?
making sure you have everything you need before leaving HQ?
alphabetizing?
using the leftover letters to spell something?
anagramming?
looking at letter frequencies?
Caesar-shifts or other ciphers?
translating numbers to letters?
treating the letters as a code (eg DNA)?
translating into call letters?
using product codes (UPCs)?
song lyrics?
cryptic crossword clues?
grouping the words into sets (e.g. by common letter, part of speech, number of letters, dots)?
forming a word chain or word square or other shape?
sequencing them by small spelling changes or other transformations?
searching for words in common with several clues?
taking the $n$-th letter of the $n$-th answer?
relating the letters to the keyboard layout?
a pun?
pronouncing the words out loud?
finding a "missing" word or letter?
seeing if it's in a foreign language?
looking for words hidden in other words or phrases?
looking for the "odd one out?"
looking at the unused letters?
Reading out loud quickly to check for anguished english? (http://www.mit.edu/~puzzle/02/round3/02/Solution.txt)
Roman Numerals
Repeating previous steps on the answer/clue phrase?
graphing them?
graphing it parametrically?
checking to see if your numbers are in the right base (including hex)?
shifting from numbers to letters?
using it as a phone number?
converting it to phonespell?
using it as an IP address?
codes like semaphore, Morse, etc?
baseball or other sports statistics?
matching numbers to MIT buildings?
matching numbers to MIT courses?
treating numbers as dates?
treating numbers as atomic weights, numbers, etc.?
treating numbers as latitude/longitude or GPS coordinates?
treating numbers as radio stations?
treating numbers as ASCII numbers?
treating numbers as PLU numbers?
treating numbers as ISBN numbers?
treating numbers as airline flight numbers?
treating numbers as zipcodes?
seeing if there are any strange sequences?
seeing if prime numbers are involved?
seeing if fundamental constants are involved?
asking what other numbers are close to the one you have?
is it tracking numbers?
factorizing?
is there an enumeration for the cluephrase hidden in the puzzle?
using the date or age?
seeing if it's in another language?
identifying the location of the picture?
grouping by color, shape, number of lines, etc.?
treating them like a rebus?
looking for content tags?
looking at the file names?
seeing the pictures are of places at MIT or MIT-related?
translating colors to hex, PANTONE, etc?
interpreting them as maps?
checking if photos have been manipulated? What is missing?
asking the room if they recognize the image as anything?
name that tune?
name that artist?
identifying the words in the song?
looking for clues hidden in the scene?
searching for content tags?
looking at the file names?
organizing by genre, number of Oscars, or some other criteria?
finding associated data with the picture (e.g. music or actors for stills from films)?
looking for a famous connection for a not-famous clue (e.g. b-sides, actors, earlier band names)?
overlaying multiple images in Gimp/Paint Shop Pro/Photoshop?
cutting it out?
looking at it in a mirror?
squinting at it from far away?
tilting it?
looking at it upside down?
looking through it?
rewriting it neatly?
rewriting it on graph paper?
saying it out loud to someone else?
reading it backwards?
putting yourself in the constructor's shoes?
making it 3D?
cutting it up?
folding it?
connecting the dots?
is it a song/poem/book/movie/TV show?
is it from a magazine?
Braille?
Morse code?
seeing if it's a card game, board game, or role-playing game?
sports (baseball, horseracing, chessboxing...)?
overlaying it on a map of MIT?
overlaying it on a map of Cambridge/Boston?
overlaying it on a map of the stars?
is it a runaround?
getting on the T?
checking it for pop culture references
using the Library of Congress or Dewey decimal system?
asking whether it has anything to do personally with the constructing team?
solving it as a chemistry/physics/math problem?
seeing if it's horribly obfuscated code in an obscure language?
are sets missing an element?
do the clue answers yield more clues of the same type?
do you have to put together or disentangle the clues?
do you have to order trigrams?
does the puzzle have two (or more) solutions?
have you found any similarities/commonalities?
why are clues grouped the way they are?
does it refer to a website?
is it a japanese logic puzzle?
how it differs from normal crosswords/paint-by-numbers/word-finds etc?
what the theme is (for crosswords)?
what the gimmick is (double-letter squares, drop all "e"'s)?
backsolving?
trusting your instincts?
trusting someone else's instincts?
asking "what's weird about this?"
taking a step back?
asking for fresh brains?
checking your work?
asking someone else to check your work?
explaining your work to someone else?
doing what you've already done again to the output?
consulting the list of expertise?
leaving the room?
asking people if it looks like anything they recognize?
thinking about what's missing?
asking yourself whether you've used all the information?
keeping even a strange-looking result?
brute force?
not thinking about it?
splitting up tasks to solve in a group?
talking to a hunt veteran?
talking to a hunt newbie?
asking "what's the pattern"?
rereading the instructions?
seeing if any one element of the puzzle is "special"?
putting all the words into google?
you find a phrase akin to "red herring," "poisson rouge," "try again," "not this way, you idiot," etc.
the coincidences/connections you find involve only 1% of the clues.
you have a filled in crossword grid but no idea what to do.
you haven't actually tried working on the puzzle, fool.
